manual/components/user-interface.rst, before:

==============
User Interface
==============

We dissociate the *controlling interface* from the *virtual environment*.

The *controlling interface* (here called ``console``) is the graphical user interface (GUI) that controls Blender-VR. The *virtual environment* is the part of the simulation that runs on each node inside ``blenderplayer``.

To simplify, the console is run by the user, use PySide but cannot import ``bge`` python module whereas the *virtual environment* is run by ``blenderplayer``, don't have any GUI and can import ``bge`` python module.

From the `processor file <processor-file.html>`_ perspective there is even a third mode, the ``update loader``. This mode is a glue between the previous ones. In the ``update loader`` the ``.blend`` file is changed on-the-fly so when it runs into the ``virtual environment`` it interacts with the ``console`` and with eventual interaction devices.


Console
-------

..
  {{ :doc:blendervr.png?200|}}

The so called ``console`` is the GUI of Blender-VR. It allows you to choose the configuration file(s) (``configuration`` tab), the screen set to use and the simulation file in any tab. In the ``Run`` tab, you can start and stop Blender-VR and have the log of the console.

You can load the console by invoking ``./blenderVR path/blenderVR`` (clicking on it or running from a console). You can also add ``blenderVR`` inside a ``bin`` folder that is included inside your ``PATH`` environment variable.

By default, the console does not "known" anything. You have to manually set configuration file, active screen-set, simulation file ... However, it stores these relevant informations in its internal data store path (see above). So you have to set these informations the first time you run Blender-VR and they remain active (across different running) until you change it with the GUI.

Configuration File
------------------

You can specify the ``XML`` file inside the ``configuration`` tab. Don't forget to click on ``> Load configuration`` to ask Blender-VR to read the configuration file (and store it inside its internal data file) ! You should go to ``run`` tab and select ``debug`` inside the log window to see if there is bug inside your configuration file.

Active Screen Set
-----------------

You can choose any screen set that is defined inside your ``XML`` configuration file. You also must click on ``> Load screen set`` to make it active (and register it for further Blender-VR usage). The current active screen set is displayed on the right.

Simulation File
---------------

Here, you must select the ``.blend`` file you want to load. For the beginning, you should try the ``basic.blend``, that you can get from the `samples repository <../installation/installation.html#getting-samples>`_.

Start/Stop
----------

When everything is defined you can try to start/stop by going to the ``Run`` tab. Have a look at the main log window below the Start and the Stop buttons.

Debug Window per Screen
-----------------------

You can also have a look at the per screen log window : menu ``Windows`` > ``Screens`` and select the screen that you want to debug. We suggest, at the beginning, to debug your XML `configuration file <configuration-file.html>`_, to set it to debug mode and activate ``Standard output`` and ``Error output``.

Standard/Error Outputs
----------------------

They will display ``stdout`` and ``stderr`` of the instance of blenderplayer. Thus, you will see if there is a bug while running it. When blenderplayer runs correctly, you should disable these options.

Log Level
---------

The log level is usefull when blenderplayer runs properly. It can display errors of your `processor file <processor-file.html>`_.

Daemons
-------

The console use one daemon per screen. The daemon is a python script that:

  * Connects by network to the console and interact with it.
  * Start the instance of blenderplayer (for the "virtual environment") when required.
  * Catch blenderplayer's ``stdout`` and ``stderr`` to address them to the console if requested.
  * Kill blenderplayer if the "virtual environment" don't gently stop on console request.
  * . . .

In other words, the daemon manages blenderplayer. It runs on the computer that will run the blenderplayer instance.

Under Linux, this daemon becomes a real UNIX daemon (fork, close input and output ...).

.. note::
  The daemon script is included inside Blender-VR - you don't have to tweak it.

Commit message:

User interface: add image in the rst document

manual/components/user-interface.rst, after:

==============
User Interface
==============

We dissociate the *controlling interface* from the *virtual environment*.

The *controlling interface* (here called ``console``) is the graphical user interface (GUI) that controls Blender-VR. The *virtual environment* is the part of the simulation that runs on each node inside ``blenderplayer``.

To simplify, the ``console`` is run by the user, use PySide but cannot import ``bge`` python module whereas the *virtual environment* is run by ``blenderplayer``, don't have any GUI and can import ``bge`` python module.

From the `processor file <processor-file.html>`_ perspective there is even a third mode, the ``update loader``. This mode is a glue between the previous ones. In the ``update loader`` the ``.blend`` file is changed on-the-fly so when it runs into the ``virtual environment`` it interacts with the ``console`` and with eventual interaction devices.

Console
-------

The so called ``console`` is the GUI of Blender-VR. It allows you to choose the configuration file(s) (``configuration`` tab), the screen set to use and the simulation file in any tab. In the ``Run`` tab, you can start and stop Blender-VR and have the log of the ``console``.

You can load the ``console`` by invoking ``./blenderVR path/blenderVR`` (clicking on it or running from a ``console``). You can also add ``blenderVR`` inside a ``bin`` folder that is included inside your ``PATH`` environment variable.

By default, the ``console`` does not "known" anything. You have to manually set configuration file, active screen-set, simulation file ... However, it stores these relevant informations in its internal data store path (see above). So you have to set these informations the first time you run Blender-VR and they remain active (across different running) until you change it with the GUI.

.. figure:: /images/user-interface.jpg
  :width: 600px
  :figwidth: 600px
  :align: center

  Console Graphical User Interface


Configuration File
==================

You can specify the ``XML`` file inside the ``configuration`` tab. Don't forget to click on ``> Load configuration`` to ask Blender-VR to read the configuration file (and store it inside its internal data file) ! You should go to ``run`` tab and select ``debug`` inside the log window to see if there is bug inside your configuration file.

Active Screen Set
=================

You can choose any screen set that is defined inside your ``XML`` configuration file. You also must click on ``> Load screen set`` to make it active (and register it for further Blender-VR usage). The current active screen set is displayed on the right.

Simulation File
===============

Here, you must select the ``.blend`` file you want to load. For the beginning, you should try the ``basic.blend``, that you can get from the `samples repository <../installation/installation.html#getting-samples>`_.

Start/Stop
==========

When everything is defined you can try to start/stop by going to the ``Run`` tab. Have a look at the main log window below the Start and the Stop buttons.

Debug Window per Screen
=======================

You can also have a look at the per screen log window : menu ``Windows`` > ``Screens`` and select the screen that you want to debug. We suggest, at the beginning, to debug your XML `configuration file <configuration-file.html>`_, to set it to debug mode and activate ``Standard output`` and ``Error output``.

Standard/Error Outputs
======================

They will display ``stdout`` and ``stderr`` of the instance of blenderplayer. Thus, you will see if there is a bug while running it. When blenderplayer runs correctly, you should disable these options.

Log Level
=========

The log level is usefull when blenderplayer runs properly. It can display errors of your `processor file <processor-file.html>`_.

Daemons
-------

The ``console`` use one daemon per screen. The daemon is a python script that:

  * Connects by network to the ``console`` and interact with it.
  * Start the instance of blenderplayer (for the "virtual environment") when required.
  * Catch blenderplayer's ``stdout`` and ``stderr`` to address them to the ``console`` if requested.
  * Kill blenderplayer if the "virtual environment" don't gently stop on ``console`` request.
  * . . .

In other words, the daemon manages blenderplayer. It runs on the computer that will run the blenderplayer instance.

Under Linux, this daemon becomes a real UNIX daemon (fork, close input and output ...).

.. note::
  The daemon script is included inside Blender-VR - you don't have to tweak it.
